Cluster: control-plane cluster role (#17269)
canonical/lxd: doc/howto/cluster_manage.md

    lxc cluster role add <member-name> <role>

Examples:

    lxc cluster role add server1 event-hub
    lxc cluster role add server1 control-plane

```{note}
You can add or remove only those roles that are not assigned automatically by LXD. Database roles (`database-voter`, `database-standby`, `database-leader`) are automatically assigned and cannot be added or removed manually.

**Using the control-plane role:**

The `control-plane` role is useful for autoscaling clusters where you want fixed database members and dynamic worker members. To use it:

1. Assign the role to at least 3 members:

       lxc cluster role add node1 control-plane
       lxc cluster role add node2 control-plane
       lxc cluster role add node3 control-plane

2. Verify activation by running `lxc cluster list` - only members with the `control-plane` role will display database roles.

3. New members joining the cluster will automatically be spares. To make them eligible for database roles, assign the `control-plane` role to them.

> You can assign `control-plane` to more members than `cluster.max_voters` to create a pool of eligible candidates. For example, 5 members with control-plane when `cluster.max_voters` is 3 means 3 become voters from the 5 candidates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Assign the role to at least 3 members:

       lxc cluster role add <member1> control-plane
       lxc cluster role add <member2> control-plane
       lxc cluster role add <member3> control-plane

2. Verify activation by running `lxc cluster list` — only members with the `control-plane` role will display database roles.

3. New members join the cluster as spares by default. To make them eligible for database roles, assign the `control-plane` role to them.

You can assign `control-plane` to more members than {config:option}`server-cluster:cluster.max_voters` to create a pool of eligible candidates. For example, having 5 `control-plane` members when {config:option}`server-cluster:cluster.max_voters` is 3 means 3 of the 5 candidates become voters. If one of the voters becomes unavailable, one of the remaining two candidates takes its place.
```

> 

Reviewer: Let's move this section out of the note and into its own section following the `Assign member roles` section, starting like this:

```
(cluster-manage-control-plane)=
### Use the control-plane role
```
